=Introduction=
Welcome to the wiki page where you will find a number of templates that can be used to extract data from VISSTAT within [http://www.r-project.org R].

=Before you start=
  * Before you are able to extract data from VISSAT, please read [connect2Visstat] 
  * Please update your scripts regularly from this website as this will be the only place where updates to the templates will be made. You might run into unexpected results using old pieces of code!
  * Report bugs to either Twan Leijzer or report them under the [http://code.google.com/p/visstat-extraction/issues/list issues tab]

=Getting started=
Start a recent version of R, preferably R 2.14.x and load the appropriate libraries
<code>library(RODBC)</code>
Copy one of the templates from the WIKI to your R editor.<br>
Example:
<code>SELECT * FROM vms WHERE 
rgn_local_date BETWEEN '01-jan-2010' and '31-jan-2010'</code>
Make sure the template is 'pasted' together and written to a new variable.
<code>query <- paste("SELECT * FROM vms WHERE 
rgn_local_date BETWEEN '01-jan-2010' and '31-jan-2010'")</code>
The query is ready to be executed, but first a connection to the VISSTAT database needs to be established. To make a connection, follow the following line where user is the username similar to your Raja username and password is either a password you got from Peter van der Kamp:
<code>conn <- odbcConnect(dsn="visstatp",uid=user,pwd=passwd,believeNRows=F)</code>
Next step is to actually evaluate the query.
<code>visstatData <- sqlQuery(conn,query)</code>
Please note that some queries might take a considerable amount of time to run! If it's not going quick enough, consider to query VISSTAT directly from Raja (more advanced).